In a 100x100 two-dimensional grid environment, three unknown pollution source locations are randomly generated, where pollutants spread over time.The mode of diffusion is Transient Diffusion. Additionally, five buildings with an area of 3x3 are randomly placed within the grid.In the environment, there will be some obstacles that drones are prohibited from entering.
In this environment, two drones act as agents to locate the source of pollution by measuring the concentration of pollutants at their current locations. The task is to utilize two drones to locate multiple pollution sources within the environment. The drones have five movement options: move up, move down, move left, move right or stand still, which correspond to the numbers 0, 1, 2, 3, and 4, respectively. Please use your best judgment to guide the drones towards the source of the pollution.
Next, I will provide the current locations of Drone1 and Drone2, the concentration of pollution at those locations, the highest concentration detected previously, and the time since that highest concentration, as well as the action taken in the previous step.At the beginning, you can try different directions of movement to observe which direction the concentration increases more significantly, in order to assist your judgment.Remember do not always take action4(stay in place) since it is not helpful for the task.If the previous action of the drone was action4, then it is advisable to avoid choosing action4 for the next move. This approach can help prevent repetitive movements that may not be productive in locating the pollution sources and can aid in exploring different directions for potentially more effective results.
But you must pay attention to the fact that the concentration of pollutants at each location varies over time; therefore, it is not appropriate to simply compare the current concentration with the previous highest concentration, Even if you stay in place, the concentration will still increase. Therefore, if the source of pollution has not already been found, try to avoid action 4(staying in place) consistently. If the increase in concentration is consistently small, it suggests that this rise is likely due to the natural dispersion of the pollution source rather than the drone choosing the correct direction. Therefore, it may be advisable to change the direction of movement.Please direct the drone to explore the relatively high concentration to find the source of pollution.Please instruct the drone not to encounter obstacles
You can guide the next movement of the two drones based on this information. Please remember there are three pollution sources instead of one. Please choose an action for each drone. Type '0' to move up, '1' to move down, '2' to move left, '3' to move right, or '4' to stay in place. Ensure you only provide action numbers from the valid action list.More importantly, the output of your content must be a two-dimensional array. For example, if you want Drone1 to move up and Drone2 to move down, you would output: [0, 1].You may include your thought process, but it is essential to ensure that the format of the very end of the output is:So, the output for the next actions of the drones would be: [action 1, action 2].Even if one of the drones has located the source of pollution, its next action should be included when outputting the information.  It is crucial to ensure that the output is always in the format of [action 1, action 2].
